- [Instructor] Now that we know the basic setup
of the project and the requisites, what we are going to do
is we are going to first look at the types
of HTTP requests that we have.
We know that HTTP is the communication protocol
between the client and the server, and every request
that is made from the client to the server is of a type.
The first one among them is the GET request,
which is simply used to get or retrieve
information from the server side.
The next one is POST, which is used to process
or manipulate information on the server side.
So if you make a post request,
you're going to change the data on the server side.
Next is PUT, which is going to upload
the definition of a resource on the server.
As for the DELETE, it is going to
delete a resource from the server.
HEAD is going to be the same as a get request;
but it is only going to return with the header
information, not the body of the response.
And when you talk about OPTIONS, options is basically
that kind of a request which will help you to trace
what HTTP methods work on the server,
as in what are the possible options
that you can run on the target resource.
Now, among all of these, we are going to focus more
on GET and POST because that is what
we use in all our industry projects.
Of course, you can implement PUT and DELETE as well;
but they're rarely used, and we're going to stick
and deep dive into GET and POST requests alone.